Previously on
Dexter: Original Sin...
[Harry]
Jesus!
♪ pulsing, dramatic music ♪
[screaming]
A serial killer?
The killer's methods
are escalating.
He's-he's experimenting.
He's becoming more violent.
[camera clicking]
[Bean]
Someone took a fire poker,
beat the guy like a piñata,
and kept going
after the candy came out.
Any suspects?
[Harry]
Moser?
Brian has been
remarkably resilient
considering
what they've been through.
- [screaming]
- [chain saw buzzing]
- I hate this place!
- [grunts]
I hate all of you!
- [gasps]
- Leave me alone!
So, I'm-I'm afraid we can't
handle his level of trauma.
What about Dexter?
We've grown to really love him.
Holy shit.
[gasping]
Fucker is stalking my son.
- You promised me...
- [sniffles]
...you wouldn't separate
me and Dexter.
[crying]
I'm sorry.
- [chain saw buzzing]
- No!
I'm gonna separate you.
Help me!
[screaming]
I know this is
gonna sound crazy,
but I think Captain Spencer
killed Jimmy Powell
and kidnapped Nicky.
That is crazy.
Please let me out of here.
What did I do?
This will all be over soon.
Nicky Spencer was spotted
at a known cartel stash house.
Tell me where
my fucking son is, motherfucker.
Aaron, stop!
- [overlapping shouting]
- [rapid gunfire]
Officer down!
- How's Bobby?
- Shot in the neck.
Massive blood loss.
He's in surgery.
Jesus Christ.
We can't let Bobby's sacrifice
be in vain.
- [grunts]
- Ah!
Dexter, what is this?
You were always
one of the good guys to me.
I am one of the good guys!
Good guys don't kill kids.
- She betrayed me.
- Becca?
[Spencer] Betrayed my family
and turned Nicky against me.
Oh, you did all this to...
- to hurt your ex-wife?
- [Spencer] Let me go.
I'll tell you where Nicky is.
When I get back,
you better be more forthcoming
about Nicky.
[grunting]
[tires screeching]
♪ dramatic, intense music ♪
♪
[tires screeching]
♪ percussive music ♪
♪
[mosquito buzzing]
[knife sharpening]
♪
♪ mysterious music ♪
Little pig, little pig,
won't you let me come in?
No, no, no,
not by the hair on...
Mommy?
Mom is busy right now.
[Dexter]
Mama?
Let's finish
The Three Little Pigs.
It's your favorite.
No, no, no,
not by the hair
on my chinny chin chin.
[man grunting]
Hey!
Okay.
I got you. I got you. Hold on.
- [grunts]
- No!
[Brian] That was the first time
my brother was taken from me.
- [siren wailing]
- [helicopter whirring]
But it wouldn't be the last.
♪ tense, pulsing music ♪
♪
[engine starts]
I-Is-isn't Dexter coming?
Not this time, dear.
We're gonna find a new family
for you to stay with.
One that's... a better fit.
[Brian]
"A better fit" is
a polite way of saying
someone didn't want you.
Next was the Kerstens.
Okay, let's go.
[grunts]
Sleep tight, asshole.
Let me out! [grunting]
[yelling]
And he huffed and he puffed
and blew the house down...
And he huffed...
and he puffed
and he blew the house...
Brian? How'd you get in there?
[yells]
[screams]
You hurt me! Brian!
[Brian] Each new home was
a new "better fit."
[yelling]
[Brian] But when the fit is
never right...
Got everything?
- Okay. Okay.
- ...you just get thrown away.
Thank you so much. I think
this will be a better fit.
Okay, um, Brian,
this is going to be
- your new home.
- [sighs]
Yeah. And this man is gonna
show you to your room.
You can go with him.
It's all right.
[chuckles softly]
[Brian] They said I had
antisocial personality disorder.
That I lacked empathy,
disregarded social norms.
That I would exploit
or violate others.
Some doctors even said
I was a psychopath.
I was seven years old,
then eight, nine, ten.
I had everything taken from me.
My mother,
my little brother, my freedom.
For years the only constant
in my life was Raul.
I thought he was the only person
who actually cared about me.
[Raul]
Hey, there, Louise.
- Meds for Moser.
- Yeah.
- Thank you, darling.
- You're welcome.
[claps]
- [grunts]
- Hey.
Where are they?
Where are what?
The new doctor said
I was supposed to be
on three new medications
for the last six months.
It's no wonder
I'm not getting any better.
I don't know what you're
talking about, kid, all right?
- Just--
- Where are they?
Dude, you're acting crazy.
I'm not crazy!
Security!
[both grunting]
[panting, grunting]
You get the fuck off me!
You liar!
♪ melancholy music ♪
♪
[Petrie]
I'm proud of you, Brian.
You've never been able
to talk about your past
without losing your cool.
Seems like you're getting
to a place of peace.
Thanks to you.
We've come a long way together.
Enough to go see him now?
We've talked about this.
You don't want to backtrack
on all the progress you've made.
He's my brother.
He's the only family
I have in this world.
And he's a trigger for you.
It'll only cause you to spiral.
I can handle it.
Actually, you can't.
Then what am I doing this for?
So I can work at a RadioShack
for the rest of my life?
Brian, if you keep pressing,
we'll have to talk about
sending you back
to the hospital.
You don't want that, do you?
Then I suppose there's
nothing more you can do for me.
[groaning]
[grunting, gasping]
♪ intense, dramatic music ♪
♪
[crying]
No!
[shouts]
[grunting]
[Brian panting]
[poker bashing]
♪ eerie, disorienting music ♪
♪
[engine starts]
♪ percussive, dramatic music ♪
♪
[Dexter]
After being on my table,
Spencer was desperate.
And desperate people do
desperate things.
[engine revving]
For a moment,
I thought he was taking me
to the station.
But even he couldn't be
that desperate.
♪ quiet, eerie music ♪
♪
♪ dramatic, percussive music ♪
We'd been scouring the city
and Spencer'd been
keeping Nicky
a half mile from the station.
You son of a bitch.
[chuckles]
When we took Ben
to your mother's
and snuck off to the Keys.
[exclaims softly]
I believe
this was the night
we conceived Ana.
- [chuckling]
- Heard that.
Oh. Shit, sorry.
Am I interrupting?
No, not at all.
It's really good
to see you, Debra.
- Sorry, Missy.
- Hi.
Didn't realize
you'd still be here.
I didn't, either.
Well, I should get
the kids home.
It's way past
their bedtime, so...
All right.
I'm gonna stay here with Bobby.
No, you've already done so much.
- Oh, come on, this is nothing.
- It's everything.
I mean, between you and
everybody else at Miami Metro,
Bobby hasn't been alone
for one minute.
It's meant so much.
Well, there isn't anything
we wouldn't do for this guy.
Or for you. You're family.
Thank you.
- Mm.
And thank you, too.
'Cause I know
there's a million other places
you could be.
[chuckles]
My Dad was right, for once.
You're family.
There's no place I'd rather be.
Thanks.
Night, mi amor.
I'll be back in the morning.
And try not to do anything
too exciting until then.
[Harry sighs]
Thanks for being here, Deb.
Unfortunately,
thanks to Mom and then you,
I've become quite the expert
on this hospital
bedside manner shit.
[chuckles]
How is he?
Keeps going in and out
of consciousness.
We're just supposed
to keep talking to him.
Apparently that helps,
even if he can't respond.
Morgan. I just got a page.
News chopper spotted a body
on the roof of a building.
[sighs]
I just told Missy
I was gonna stay with Bobby.
Can you handle it?
It's nice to know you trust me.
But this one...
♪ uneasy music ♪
All right.
Give us a minute, hon.
♪
Dispatch told me
the scene's especially ugly.
The-the victim was dismembered.
- With a chain saw.
- [exhales sharply]
Has the vic been ID'd yet?
- Uh...
- [paper rustles]
Barbara Plimpton.
I'm Barb Plimpton.
Name mean anything to you?
No.
Hey, Deb.
What's up, Dad?
I hate to do this to you,
but can you stay with Bobby?
No problem.
[exhales]
♪ gentle music ♪
♪
All right, if anything changes,
just page me.
You got it.
Think this could be our guy?
♪ propulsive music ♪
♪
[footsteps echoing in distance]
[distant clang]
[Dexter] I wasn't going
to get to Nicky first.
I had to give Spencer
something else to worry about:
me.
Spencer!
You left without saying goodbye.
- [clattering in distance]
- Motherfucker.
[clattering continues
in distance]
[weakly] Help.
Help.
[grunts]
[clattering continues]
[grunting]
Help!
[Dexter] I've always been
more comfortable in darkness.
Help!
[helicopter blades whirring]
♪ dark music ♪
♪
Where's Dexter?
He's off this shift.
Which is a good thing.
This is more of
a big boy crime scene.
What do we know so far?
Only what you see.
Body was cut into six pieces.
She was alive when it happened.
Gnarly, right?
What kind of monster
would do this?
All that rage. [grunts]
You think this could
be our serial killer?
Next step in his evolution?
I'm gonna...
check the perimeter.
♪ tense, dramatic music ♪
♪
[exhales]
[panting]
Detective, how do you want
to handle the body?
Um...
Detective Morgan?
Where the hell is Morgan?
♪ percussive music ♪
♪
Help!
[coughs]
[footsteps falling]
Fuck.
[grunting]
Aah!
[gasping]
[both panting]
[grunting, panting]
[panting]
[grunting]
Help! Help!
[pipes creaking]
Help!
[grunting] No!
That's your son.
Is he?
[Nicky]
Help!
Help! Help!
He's a kid.
An innocent.
He doesn't deserve any of this.
Deserve has nothing
to do with this.
[panting]
Look. I get rage.
Believe me,
there are better ways
to handle it, I promise.
What kind of monster are you?
I'll give you a choice.
You can come after me.
Or you can save him.
So the real question is
what kind of monster are you?
- [grunts]
- [Nicky] Help!
♪ melancholy music ♪
♪
♪ percussive music ♪
[gasping]
♪
[groaning]
[gasping]
[Dexter panting]
[coughs]
[panting]
Someone'll be here soon.
You're safe now, Nicky.
[sirens wailing in distance]
Bobby?
Don't know
if you can hear me, but...
apparently
I'm supposed to talk to you.
Last time I was in a hospital
with someone I love,
my dad had just
had a heart attack.
And before that,
my mom was dying.
Uh... Fuck me.
I'm supposed to be
keeping it positive.
[sniffles] Um...
Oh.
The FSU scout called.
Guess I'm still in the running
for that scholarship,
even though I punched Tiffany
in the face.
Oh, yeah.
[sighs, sniffles]
I punched Tiffany,
got suspended.
Not sure if my dad
told you that.
It wasn't my best moment, but...
[sniffles]
...guess the door is still open
to play at FSU.
I should know by the end
of the week.
All I have to do is wait.
And we both know
how good I am at that.
[exhales]
This year sucked so much.
[crying] I mean,
just really fucking blown.
I mean, between my mom dying
and Dad's heart attack,
Dexter not being around as much.
[sniffles] Stupid breakups,
some asshole and my best friend.
Fuck my life.
[sobs softly]
I need a new game plan.
♪ contemplative music ♪
♪
[Brian]
Where are you, baby brother?
We need to talk, Brian.
Chain saw give me away?
Just confirmed
what I already knew.
That you're on some kind of
twisted revenge quest.
Killed Barb Plimpton,
your social worker.
Raul Martinez, an orderly at
Harbor Light Mental Institute.
And Dr. Petrie, your therapist.
Who hasn't wanted to kill
their shrink?
Well, what about
the other two victims?
What'd they do to
wind up on your list?
Blake Kersten
was the son of the host family
that I stayed with
after you sent me away.
He wasn't very nice to me.
Hey, hey. Stay where you are.
What about Woodard?
He was in my group home.
[screams]
[grunting]
[gasping]
He wasn't very nice to me, either.
But not only did you kill them,
you used them as bait
so you could watch Dexter
work their crime scenes.
How do you figure that?
I read Petrie's files.
I understand
how disturbed you are
and how desperate you are
to see him.
Petrie's right.
You shouldn't contact Dexter
and I'm gonna make sure
you never do.
Too late.
Anyone sitting here?
Yeah. I'm saving their seats.
Sorry.
No problem.
What did you do to him?
What are you talking about?
To Dexter. To make him
forget his own brother.
He was so young, so traumatized,
he blocked it all out.
How convenient.
Is that why you threw me away?
So you wouldn't have
to tell your son the truth?
That you fucked his mom,
forced her to snitch
and sent her off to the cartel
to get chainsawed to pieces
in front of him.
And what about the fact
that you buried
his only surviving sibling
so deep in the system...
because then you'd have him
all to yourself.
I never meant to hurt you.
But you couldn't be saved.
Dexter could.
Dexter needs me.
You're right.
He needs you...
to let him go.
You come back into his life,
you're just gonna bring
all of that pain with you.
All of that suffering.
Is that what you want
for your little brother?
I saved Dexter from all of that.
Gave him a good life,
a chance to thrive.
He never would have
had that with you.
Two things can be true
at the same time.
You can hate me for good reasons
and still know that I am
the best thing for Dexter.
♪ melancholy music ♪
♪
You really think
you're the hero.
Far from it.
But I am gonna bring you in.
And if you truly
love your brother,
you're not gonna say
a damn thing.
[sighs]
I'm not going to prison.
You're going to have to finish
what you started
when you threw me away
17 years ago.
♪ tense music ♪
♪
[panting]
[grunts]
I'm Maria González, and here
are tonight's top stories.
Miami is in the midst
of a real estate boom
spearheaded by the surge
of international investors
hailing from Latin America.
- [Nelson] Babe.
- In the past year...
[Nelson] Why don't you
come back to bed?
It's the same broadcast
as earlier tonight.
They might have
an update on Nicky.
- The cops would have called.
- I'll be up.
While some people are
celebrating this boost...
Promise.
...in the local economy,
many Miami residents
are concerned
that the higher prices
and property taxes
may make home affordability
not possible.
- [man grunts]
- In sports news,
Florida native Jim Courier
upsets Andre Agassi...
- Nelson? Honey?
- ...to win the French Open.
Agassi, who was the...
Nelson! Oh, my God!
- I'm gonna fucking kill you!
- Aaron, stop it!
Please! [panting] Please!
You lied to me!
You told me he was my son!
- [whimpering]
- You lying bitch.
[Spencer]
How could you do this to me?
Huh?!
[both panting]
I loved you. I loved you.
How could you do this to me?
How?!
[crying]
What did you do to Nicky?
Same thing I'm gonna do to you.
But I'm gonna look you
in the eye when I do it!
You fucking bitch!
[grunts]
[Dexter] Spencer running
would've been logical.
But I knew hate had no logic.
[panting]
[González] An unidentified
woman has been found dead
on top of a Brickell high-rise.
The woman's body was
dismembered into six pieces.
Police believe her assailant
used a chain saw.
The body was left out on top
of a downtown rooftop...
[groaning]
[grunting] Shit.
[grunting]
♪ percussive, dramatic music ♪
♪
What?
[pager beeps]
Bobby.
♪ exciting music ♪
♪
Deb?
[panting]
- He's okay.
- [sighs]
He's gonna be okay.
[panting]
Are you okay?
[both breathing heavily]
- Hey.
- [Deb crying]
Everything's fine.
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪
[Dexter] What a beautiful
night on the water.
I'd spent weeks
with this intense urge
to find and kill
the murderer of Jimmy Powell.
Some people are worth the wait.
[cracks]
[sniffs, gasps]
[sighs]
Oh, it's you.
[groans]
Again.
How does it feel to have
ruined your own life?
Your entire legacy.
All for nothing?
No. I taught her a lesson.
She'll... [laughs]
She will never feel safe again.
Well, you did do that.
But Nicky's alive.
Nicky, Becca and Nelson...
have a chance at
happily-ever-after.
But you?
[exhales]
Not so much.
Look at yourself.
You get to die knowing
that you failed.
As a cop, as a father,
a husband...
...a human being.
If you only knew
how your dad failed you.
No. This isn't about Harry.
No, this night is all about you.
[heart beating rapidly]
How many lives
were you willing to destroy
just because you couldn't
handle your own emotion?
I am the goddamn Miami Metro
Homicide captain.
You are a psychotic
piece of shit!
Stop it.
You don't deserve that badge.
And you don't deserve to live.
Enough!
Just get it over with.
♪ dramatic music ♪
[panting]
♪
[gurgling]
Now it's "over with."
[grunting]
[Dexter] Thanks to
Camilla's generous offer,
I had a new way to dispose
of my bodies.
I was a little closer
to my final form.
I almost felt... complete.
♪ atmospheric music ♪
♪
Mm. [sighs]
In breaking news,
the search for the son of
Miami Metro's Homicide captain,
Aaron Spencer, is finally over.
The boy is in stable condition
at Angel of Mercy Hospital,
his mother at his side.
[news broadcast continues]
What happened to you?
What happened
to you?
Oh.
Yeah, I, uh...
a rough case.
See this?
According to a source,
the boy alleged
he'd been kidnapped
by his own father,
who has not been seen
nor heard from...
[sighs]
[scoffs]
Your instincts were right
about Spencer.
If it weren't for me...
- Dad...
- Hey.
If it weren't for me,
Spencer would have been
caught by now.
Nicky would've been rescued
days ago.
[exhales]
I never should have
stopped you from...
going after him.
I'm sorry
I didn't listen to you.
That's okay.
I didn't listen to you, either.
[scoffs]
Does that mean...
Spencer will never
hurt anyone again.
[sighs]
♪ quiet, dramatic music ♪
♪
[exhales]
And-and Nicky?
Was that, was that you, too?
Spencer tried to drown him, Dad.
His own son.
I saved him.
Gave him mouth-to-mouth before
we even broke the surface.
[exhales]
Don't worry. Nobody saw me.
Not even Nicky.
[scoffs]
I've known Spencer forever.
He was my friend.
Never in a million years
could I ever have imagined he'd
be capable of killing a child.
Or...
torturing his own son.
I saw in Spencer
what I wanted to see,
not who he actually was.
That person you once knew--
who we all knew--
he was good.
Spencer wasn't born a monster.
He became one.
But me...
I was born this way.
[Harry]
Hey! I got you.
♪
Yes.
You were.
♪ dark music ♪
♪
But I couldn't be prouder
of what you've become.
Thank you for believing
I could be more.
For showing me
how to channel my urges.
Control them.
And for teaching me
who deserves to die.
I'm sorry it had to be
your friend.
You did the right thing...
...son.
♪ You'll think I'm dead,
but I sail away ♪
♪ On a wave of mutilation ♪
♪ A wave of mutilation ♪
- ♪ Wave of mutilation... ♪
- [Sofia] Deb.
Hey.
Thought you weren't
talking to me.
I'm not. But I heard about Gio.
And even though you suck...
I wanted to make sure
you were okay.
- I'm done with him.
- Good.
I'm sorry.
I royally fucked up.
Yes, Dex is my brother.
But he's also an idiot.
And you're my best friend.
And I should've cared
way more about your feelings.
I'm sorry, too.
I shouldn't have told Tiffany
about the car prank.
I was just trying
to get her to chill,
but I should've known
she'd react like a total psycho.
Tiff's gonna Tiff.
But you and me...
we're cool?
Yeah. Yeah, we are.
♪
We have people
searching everywhere.
Airports. Bridges. Trains.
Hell, even cruise ships.
[exhales]
I keep looking at these boards,
waiting for 'em to make sense.
All this evidence--
how did we miss this?
You had too much history.
And that malparido,
he was too good a liar.
Yeah.
But how did it get this far?
To kill Jimmy,
go after his own son?
For what?
People clouded by anger...
they don't make
logical decisions.
They make dangerous ones.
With serious consequences.
Yeah.
Well, officially,
there's counseling available
for any officer who needs it.
Unofficially,
I got a bottle
of Santa Teresa 1796 in my desk.
- Appreciate it.
- [chuckles]
Oh, uh, how was Tampa?
Any news on
LaGuerta's serial killer?
[Harry]
Between you and me, uh,
LaGuerta was wrong
about the NHI cases.
There is no serial killer.
I thought you were
on board with her.
I was giving her
the benefit of the doubt.
But, you know, sometimes
things are just random.
I've already filed my report.
Tyrannosaurus Dex,
crazy few days, huh?
Sorry you've been stuck
on the sidelines.
I heard about
that body on the roof.
We would've called you, but it's
too intense for intern eyes.
[Tanya]
That's a good point, Vince.
He shouldn't be an intern.
The brass gave me
the approval for another head.
Dexter, how would you feel about
joining the department
full-time?
I'd feel...
good.
Then this is for you.
♪ heartfelt music ♪
♪
All right, no more coddling.
Have these analyzed,
recorded and on my desk
in the morning before I get in.
And I get in early.
[Vince]
Congrats.
Always said you were
the third-best
forensics person here.
[Vince laughs]
[Dexter] A whole new set of
playmates I had yet to meet.
♪
♪ gentle music ♪
- ♪
- [dialogue inaudible]
[cheering, clamoring]
♪
- Masuka.
- Hey...
- ♪
- [cheering]
[Dexter] Harry'd spent years
teaching me
that some people
deserved to die.
This was the first time
I understood why I had to do...
what I do.
Because some people
deserved to live.
[upbeat Latin music playing]
♪
[indistinct chatter]
- Here you go.
- Oh, hell yes.
[server speaks Spanish]
- [sighs] Gracias.
- [server] Mm-hmm.
- Uh--
- [server] Enjoy.
So nice having something
other than a fucking pancake
for dinner.
No offense, Dex.
None taken.
I had to find
some way to celebrate
my boy's big promotion.
- Thanks.
- You know,
Dex isn't the only Morgan
with some good news.
Yeah?
Is this what I think it is?
An acceptance letter to...
...Miami Metro Police Academy?
I know that we were all
excited about FSU.
But after seeing
Tanya and Camilla
and LaGuerta in action,
and after what everyone did
at Bobby's blood drive--
hell, seeing the whole
department show up for Nicky--
I realized
I could spend
the next four years of my life
spiking balls over a net
or I could be part of something
bigger than myself.
Something that matters.
Deb...
[chuckles]
...I'm thrilled.
- You shitting me.
- I shit you not.
I mean, the Academy might not be
what I'd imagined for you.
But the important thing is, it's
what you imagined for yourself.
And you made it happen.
Well, being a Morgan didn't
exactly hurt with Miami Metro.
Maybe.
But you're gonna be a great cop.
And I am very proud of you.
And I know your mom would
be very proud, too.
Congrats, Sis.
Yeah.
Promise not
to embarrass you too much
when you get to the station.
Now you'll have to include me
in all your
secret conversations.
[Harry laughs] Right. Yeah.
["Llorarás" by Oscar D'León
begins playing]
♪
That's my cue to celebrate!
Let's go keep an eye on her.
♪
Can you believe that girl is
gonna be an officer of the law?
You know what? I can.
[soft laugh]
The three of us working
together, how great is that?
Well, you know,
I'm not gonna be around forever.
Oh, don't say that.
Listen, you need to hear this.
When I taught you the Code,
I thought--
I hoped--
it would give you a way to deal
with your urges on your own.
And on that cargo ship,
you could have
gone after Spencer,
left Nicky to die.
You didn't.
You chose to save a child
instead of giving in
to your own compulsions.
I controlled my urges.
You channeled them.
For good.
- Thanks to your Code.
- [soft chuckle]
It's your Code now.
Hmm?
♪
[chuckles]
Come on, I'm tired
of dancing alone.
Join me, Dex.
Uh...
Please?
Pretty please,
with cheese on top?
And roasted pork,
and ham, and pickles?
[sighing]
All right. All right.
♪
- ♪
- [dialogue inaudible]
[Dexter] I'd always thought
I'd never be normal.
But in that moment, I knew
the one thing
that could save me was...
family.
♪
♪ dark, intense music ♪
♪ slow, dramatic music ♪
♪